1. A guy named Chris lives in the row four to the north of Gina.
2. Amber did not give you a gift.
3. Believe me, the red house is in the row six to the north of the phone book gifter's house.
4. Bill gave you the binoculars.
5. Bill lives two blocks due north of the yellow house.
6. Diana lives in the red house.
7. Exactly two people who gave you gifts live south of Gina.
8. Fred lives east of the purple house.
9. Fred's house is west of the orange house.
10. Gina lives somewhere north and west of the yellow house.
11. I gave you the phone book and I live in a row south of the person who gave you the binoculars.
12. I know that the neighborhood is a square grid with eight lots on a side.
13. My name is Bill and I did not give you the phone book.
14. My name is not Emma.
15. Remember that Bill's house is adjacent (counting diagonally) to exactly two other houses.
16. Sitting in the fourth column from the west end of the neighborhood is the purple house.
17. The blue house is in a row at least two blocks south of the green house.
18. The blue house is somewhere west of the red house.
19. The orange house is not in the second row from the south end of the neighborhood.
20. The orange house is on the eastern end of the neighborhood.
21. The person who gave you binoculars lives in the southernmost row of the neighborhood.
22. The person who gave you the compass lives west of Emma.
23. The phone book came from someone who lives in a column at least two blocks east of the blue house.
24. The yellow house is orthogonally adjacent to Emma's house.
25. There are no houses south of the red house.
26. There is exactly one house in the row containing the purple house.
27. Unfortunately I forget which ones, but exactly six houses are west of Chris's house.
28. You will find exactly two houses in the southwestern quadrant of the neighborhood.

----

29. I went two blocks north of my house, then to the red house. Next I visited my friend Gina, went to Bill's house, went to the lot just north of Amber's house, then one lot southwest of Emma's house, then to the lot just north of my house, and then went home.

30. I went to the blue house, then went north until I hit a house. Next I visited the yellow house, followed by the green house, and then went south until I hit a house. I then went two blocks west of Gina's house, then went home.

31. I went six blocks towards the orange house, then went two blocks northwest, visited Emma's house, and then four blocks towards the green house. Afterwards, I stopped at the phone book gifter's house. To get home, I retraced my steps.

32. From my house, I went to Chris's house. Next I went two blocks due north and then to the yellow house. Later I went one block southwest, then to the house two blocks southwest of Diana's house, and then went home.